https://www.quora.com/How-safe-is-China/answer/Tillman-Huett-Lassman

#### How safe is China?<br>中国有多安全？

My apartment door opened to a corridor, which stretched fifty feet on both sides. The elevator was to the left, and was my normal destination. One day, my girlfriend asked me why I always look both ways while stepping into the corridor like I was at a stop sign.    
我住所的门对着走廊，走廊向两侧延伸大约 15 米。电梯在左边，我通常会往那里走。有一天，我女朋友问我，为什么我走在走廊里时，总是往两边看，好像在找车位一样。

I had never noticed that I did that but I started to notice my odd little habits. Checking both sides of a corridor to get a read of the situation and to make sure that no one was lurking outside. Clenching keys between my knuckles while I walked to my car.    
我从未注意到这个，但是我开始留意这小小的怪癖。检查走廊两侧掌握情况，以确保没人潜伏在门外。把钥匙攥在指缝里直到我上车。

In the US, I wasn't afraid but I was very aware.    
在美国，我并不害怕，但是我很警惕。

Not my first day in China, my office sent a Chinese assistant to help me get from the airport to the company apartment and to help me get situated. We rode 45 minutes in a taxi at night through the bar district in Sanlitun until we were in the narrow hutongs near Dongzhimen.    
这不是我在中国的第一天。我的公司派了一位中国助手来接我下飞机，带我去公司公寓并安顿好。晚上我们坐了大概 45 分钟出租，穿过三里屯酒吧街，一直到了东直门附近的窄胡同。

We stepped out of the cab and she checked the address again. She had never been to the apartment before but had a passing familiarity with the area. We started walking through the narrow, dark streets—I could only see her from her illumination from her cell phone’s screen. Every so often we would pass these groups of men huddled around smoking cigarettes looking at us.    
我们下了车，她又检查了一遍地址。

I started feeling anxious because I would never have been caught dead in a place like this in the streets. A young woman and I walking through unlit narrow streets with luggage, laptops and cell phones, with groups of young men smoking cigarettes outside.

Suddenly, she turned to a group of young men and started showing them her phone asking for them to give us directions.

Fuck, now they know we're lost and trapped here. I thought to myself.

Instead of the horrible thoughts going through my mind, he instead acted like all people should act. He simply started giving us directions and then turned uninterestedly back to his friends and cigarette.

This example is typical of my time in China. I've been to Beijing, Guangzhou, Chengdu and other cities, and the vibe is the same.

You really don't feel any risk of violent crime—it’s as if they don't even think about it. No one is worried about getting murdered off of Craigslist (or whatever its Chinese equivalent is) nor getting harassed by their cab driver (with the exception of them trying to not start the meter and bilking you for more kuai).

There is some risk of pickpockets, but if you're smart about it then your risk drops dramatically. I just hold my phone in my hand and use it on the subway.

You can walk through the bar districts with women and not have been catcalling the women you're with. In fact, Chinese culture seems to have a strong sense of equality so I've never seen any women be harassed by Chinese men (especially during typical scenarios in the US like 40 year old business men drinking and harassing the young waitress). The annoying people are just the foreign men who get drunk and act creepy—they live up to the expat loser stereotype well.

I have been floored at how safe I feel in China, especially because I realized how vigilant I was in the US.

If safety is something that on your list of things to worry about in China, then you need a new list.
